Module format and doc: tidy up (#2502)
ansible/ansible-documentation: docs/docsite/rst/dev_guide/developing_modules_documenting.rst

Module format and documentation
*******************************

> If you want to contribute your module to most Ansible collections, please write your module in Python and follow the standard format described below. (Unless you are writing a Windows module, in which case the :ref:`Windows guidelines <developing_modules_general_windows>` apply.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases if you want to contribute your module to an Ansible collection, you should write your module in Python and follow the standard format described below. If you are writing a Windows module, you should follow the :ref:`Windows guidelines <developing_modules_general_windows>`.
```

Author: I do like your wording, thanks!

> Before you open a pull request, in addition to following these guidelines, please also review and follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you open a pull request, in addition to following these guidelines, please also review and adhere to the practices outlined in the following documentation:
```

> Before you open a pull request, in addition to following these guidelines, please also review and adhere to the practices outlined in the following documentation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you open a pull request, in addition to following these guidelines, please also review and adhere to the practices outlined in the following sections:
```

* :ref:`submission checklist <developing_modules_checklist>`
* :ref:`programming tips <developing_modules_best_practices>`

> * :ref:`strategy for maintaining Python 2 and Python 3 compatibility <developing_python_3>`

Reviewer 2: Do we need this anymore? I think python2 is ..erm.. dead.. in the ansible sense?

Author: I think we can remove because 2.16 that supports Python 2 on target hosts gets EOL in May. Thanks

* :ref:`testing <developing_testing>` before you open a pull request.

Every Ansible module written in Python must begin with seven standard sections in a particular order, followed by the code. The sections in order are:

.. contents::
   :depth: 1
   :local:

> If you are curious why ``imports`` are not put at the top of the file, see the :ref:`python_imports` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are curious why ``imports`` are not located at the top of the file, see the :ref:`python_imports` section.
```

> If you see any discrepancies in some older Ansible modules, please raise a pull request to make them satisfy these guidelines. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you see any discrepancies in older Ansible modules, please open a pull request with modifications that satisfy these guidelines. 
```

Non-Python modules documentation
================================

> For modules written in languages other than Python, there are two approaches to handling their documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For modules written in languages other than Python, there are two approaches to handling documentation:
```

> 1. still create a ``.py`` file for documentation purposes that will contain the documentation-related sections described in this document or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Option one: Create a ``.py`` file that contains the documentation-related sections described in this document.
```

> 2. starting at ansible-core 2.14, you can instead create a ``.yml`` file that has the same data structure, but in pure YAML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Option two: Starting from ansible-core 2.14, create a ``.yml`` file that has the same data structure in pure YAML.
```

Reviewer: In this line and the previous, I'd avoid the ordered list because that might be confusing. It relies on the "or" in the first item to signal the fact that the second item is an alternative to the first. Readers might find that harder to parse and think it's a sequence. I'd rather make it much more explicit that these are two independent options.

> * Option two: Starting from ansible-core 2.14, create a ``.yml`` file that has the same data structure in pure YAML.

Reviewer 2: do we really need to mention core 2.14 as it EOL'd some time ago...

Author: Good catch, removed, thanks!

  * With YAML files, the examples below are easy to use by removing Python quoting and substituting ``=`` for ``:``, for example ``DOCUMENTATION = r''' ... '''`` to ``DOCUMENTATION: ...`` and removing closing quotes. Refer to :ref:`adjacent_yaml_doc` for details.

.. _shebang:

Python shebang & UTF-8 coding
=============================

> 1. Begin your Ansible module with ``#!/usr/bin/python`` - this "shebang" allows ``ansible_python_interpreter`` to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Begin your Ansible module with the ``#!/usr/bin/python`` shebang so that ``ansible_python_interpreter`` works as expected.
```

Reviewer: I'm not quite sure about "works as expected". Maybe just "works" but maybe "takes effect" or maybe even "can correctly interpret the Python code as an Ansible module".

Author: i like just minimalist "works".  Thanks!

  * If you develop the module using a different scripting language, adjust the interpreter accordingly (``#!/usr/bin/<interpreter>``) so ``ansible_<interpreter>_interpreter`` can work for that specific language.
  * Binary modules do NOT require a shebang or an interpreter.
  * Do NOT use ``#!/usr/bin/env`` because it makes ``env`` the interpreter and bypasses ``ansible_<interpreter>_interpreter`` logic.

>   * Passing arguments to the interpreter in the shebang does not work (for example, ``#!/usr/bin/env python``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Passing arguments to the interpreter in the shebang does not work; for example, ``#!/usr/bin/env python``.
```

2. Follow the shebang immediately with ``# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-`` to clarify that the file is UTF-8 encoded.

.. _copyright:

Copyright and license
=====================

> * After the shebang and UTF-8 coding, add a `copyright line <https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/copyright-notices-in-open-source-software-projects/>`_ with the original copyright holder and a license declaration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After the shebang and UTF-8 encoding lines, add a `copyright line <https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/copyright-notices-in-open-source-software-projects/>`_ with the original copyright holder and a license declaration.
```

> * The license declaration should be ONLY one line, not the full GPL prefix.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The license declaration should be one line ONLY, not the full GPL prefix.:
```

> * The license declaration should be one line ONLY, not the full GPL prefix.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The license declaration should be one line ONLY, not the full GPL prefix, as follows:
```

    # Copyright: Contributors to the Ansible project
    # GNU General Public License v3.0+ (see COPYING or https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt)

* Additions to the module MUST NOT include additional copyright lines beyond the default statement, unless the default copyright statement is missing.

.. code-block:: python

    # Copyright: Contributors to the Ansible project

* Any legal review will include the source control history, so an exhaustive copyright header is not necessary.
* Please do NOT include a copyright year.

  * If the existing copyright statement includes a year, do NOT edit the existing copyright year.

* Do NOT modify the existing copyright header without permission from the copyright author.

.. _documentation_block:

DOCUMENTATION block
===================

> After the shebang, the UTF-8 coding, the copyright line, and the license section comes the ``DOCUMENTATION`` block. Ansible's online module documentation is generated from the ``DOCUMENTATION`` blocks in each module's source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the shebang, the UTF-8 coding, the copyright line, and the license section comes the ``DOCUMENTATION`` block. Ansible's online module documentation is generated from the ``DOCUMENTATION`` blocks in the source code of each module.
```

> After the shebang, the UTF-8 coding, the copyright line, and the license section comes the ``DOCUMENTATION`` block. Ansible's online module documentation is generated from the ``DOCUMENTATION`` blocks in the source code of each module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the shebang, the UTF-8 encoding, the copyright line, and the license section comes the ``DOCUMENTATION`` block. Ansible's online module documentation is generated from the ``DOCUMENTATION`` blocks in the source code of each module.
```

* Start by copying our `example documentation string <https://github.com/ansible/ansible-documentation/blob/devel/examples/DOCUMENTATION.yml>`_.
* Write the block in an :ref:`editor with YAML syntax highlighting <other_tools_and_programs>` before you include it in your Python file.

> * If you run into syntax issues you do not know how to solve, use the `YAML Lint <http://www.yamllint.com/>`_ website to validate it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you run into syntax issues that are difficult to resolve, use the `YAML Lint <http://www.yamllint.com/>`_ website to help validate the YAML.
```

Reviewer: I would soften the language here to avoid any inference that authors are unable to resolve syntax issues on their own. "you do not know how to" might come across as talking down to the reader a little.

When writing module documentation, take the following statements into consideration:

> * Module documentation should briefly and accurately define what each module and option does, and how it works with others in the underlying system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Module documentation should briefly and accurately define what each module and option does and how it works with others in the underlying system.
```

Reviewer: comma splice

> * Module documentation should be written for broad audience and be readable both by experts and non-experts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Module documentation should be written for a broad audience and be easily understood both by experts and non-experts.
```

> * Descriptions should always start with a capital letter and end with a full stop. Consistency always helps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Descriptions should always start with a capital letter and end with a full stop or period. Consistency always helps.
```

Reviewer: Americans usually refer to full stops as periods.

* Verify that arguments in doc and module spec dict are identical.

> * For password / secret arguments ``no_log=True`` should be set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For password and secret arguments ``no_log=True`` should be set.
```

> * Verify that arguments in doc and module spec dict are identical.

Reviewer 2: is this still required? I thought this was validated magically now ( aka docs must match mod spec or the PR fails)?

Author: Let's try to remove it:) thanks

> * If an option is only sometimes required, describe the conditions. For example, "Required when I(state=present)."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If an option is only required in certain conditions, describe those conditions; for example, "Required when I(state=present)."
```

* If your module allows ``check_mode``, reflect this fact in the documentation.
* To create clear, concise, consistent, and useful documentation, follow the :ref:`style guide <style_guide>`.

Before committing your module documentation, please test it at the :ref:`command line and as HTML <dev_testing_module_documentation>`.

> Each documentation field is described below.

Reviewer: I would move this statement under the header so it introduces the section.

Author: SGTM! Moved, thanks!

  * A short description which is displayed on the :ref:`list_of_collections` page and ``ansible-doc -l``.
  * The ``short_description`` is displayed by ``ansible-doc -l`` without any category grouping,
    so it needs enough detail to explain the module's purpose without the context of the directory structure in which it lives.

>   * Unlike ``description:``, ``short_description`` SHOULD NOT have a trailing period/full stop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Unlike ``description:``, ``short_description`` MUST NOT have a trailing period/full stop.
```

  * Options are often called "parameters" or "arguments". Because the documentation field is called ``options``, we will use that term.
  * If the module has no options (for example, it is a ``_facts`` module), all you need is one line: ``options: {}``.

>   * If your module has options (in other words, accepts arguments), documented them thoroughly. For each module option, include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If your module has options (in other words, accepts arguments), document them thoroughly. For each module option, include:
```

>     * If ``required`` is false/missing, ``default`` may be specified (assumed 'null' if missing).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * If ``required`` is either ``false`` or missing, ``default`` may be specified (assumed ``null`` if missing).
```

    * Ensure that the default value in the docs matches the default value in the code.
    * The default field MUST NOT be listed as part of the description, unless it requires additional information or conditions.
    * If the option is a boolean value, you can use any of the boolean values recognized by Ansible
      (such as ``true``/``false`` or ``yes``/``no``).  Document booleans as ``true``/``false`` for consistency and compatibility with ansible-lint.

  :choices:

    * List of option values.
    * Do NOT use it if empty.

  :type:

    * Specifies the data type that option accepts, MUST match the ``argument_spec`` dictionary.
    * If an argument is ``type='bool'``, set it to ``type: bool`` and do NOT specify ``choices``.
    * If an argument is ``type='list'``, specify ``elements``.

  :elements:

    * Specifies the data type for list elements in case ``type='list'``.

  :aliases:
    * List of optional name aliases.
    * Generally not needed and not recommended to ensure consistency in the module usage.

  :version_added:

>     * Only needed if this option was added after initial module release, in other words, this is greater than the top (module) level ``version_added`` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Only needed if this option was added after initial module release; in other words, this is greater than the top (module) level ``version_added`` field.
```

:seealso:

>   * A list of references to other modules, documentation or Internet resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * A list of references to other modules, documentation, or internet resources.
```

>   * Because it stands out better, use ``seealso`` for general references over the use of ``notes`` or adding links to the module ``description``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Because it is more prominent, use ``seealso`` for general references instead of ``notes`` or adding links to the module ``description``.
```

>   * In Ansible 2.10 and later, references to modules MUST use the FQCN or ``ansible.builtin`` for modules in ``ansible-core``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * References to modules MUST use the FQCN or ``ansible.builtin`` for modules in ``ansible-core``.
```

You can link from your module documentation to other module docs, other resources on docs.ansible.com, and resources elsewhere on the internet with the help of some pre-defined macros. The correct formats for these macros are:

* ``R()`` for cross-references with a heading (supported since Ansible 2.10). For example: ``See R(Cisco IOS Platform Guide,ios_platform_options)``. Use the RST anchor for the cross-reference. See :ref:`adding_anchors_rst` for details.

  * For links outside of your collection, use ``R()`` if available. Otherwise, use ``U()`` or ``L()`` with full URLs (not relative links).

>   * To refer to a group of modules in a collection, use ``R()``.  When a collection is not the right granularity, use ``C(..)``, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * To refer to a group of modules in a collection, use ``R()``. When a collection is not the right granularity, use ``C(..)``, for example:
```

    - ``Refer to the R(kubernetes.core collection, plugins_in_kubernetes.core) for information on managing kubernetes clusters.``
    - ``The C(win_*) modules (spread across several collections) allow you to manage various aspects of windows hosts.``

> 

Reviewer 2: Should this list of formatting options be put in alphabetical order? or did you change this here to put it in 'order of most frequently used option'?

Author: @samccann yes, I changed it exactly because of that as in R() it's written:
```
For links outside of your collection, use ``R()`` if available. Otherwise, use ``U()`` or ``L()`` with full URLs (not relative links).
```
so people read this ^ first and then info about U() and L(). Otherwise, they can miss R().

Documentation fragments
-----------------------

> If you are writing multiple related modules, they may share common documentation, such as options, authentication details, file mode settings, ``notes:`` or ``seealso:`` entries. Rather than duplicate that information in each module's ``DOCUMENTATION`` block, you can save it once as a doc_fragment plugin and use it in each module's documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are writing multiple related modules, they may share common documentation, such as options, authentication details, file mode settings, ``notes:`` or ``seealso:`` entries. Rather than duplicate that information in each module's ``DOCUMENTATION`` block, you can save it once as a doc_fragment plugin and then include it in each module's documentation.
```

EXAMPLES block
==============

> Right after the ``DOCUMENTATION`` block comes the ``EXAMPLES`` block. Here you show users how your module works with real-world examples in multi-line plain-text YAML format. The best examples are ready for the user to copy and paste into a playbook. Review and update your examples with every change to your module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Immediately after the ``DOCUMENTATION`` block comes the ``EXAMPLES`` block. Here you show users how your module works with real-world examples in multi-line plain-text YAML format. The best examples are ready for the user to copy and paste into a playbook. Review and update your examples with every change to your module.
```

Python imports
==============

> Right after the ``RETURN`` block, add the python imports. All modules must use Python imports in the form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Immediately after the ``RETURN`` block, add the Python imports. All modules must use Python imports in the form:
```

.. code-block:: python

   from module_utils.basic import AnsibleModule

The use of "wildcard" imports such as ``from module_utils.basic import *`` is no longer allowed.

.. note:: Why don't the imports go first?

  Since the ``DOCUMENTATION``, ``EXAMPLES``, and ``RETURN`` blocks are essentially extra docstrings for the file and are not used by the module code itself, the import statements are placed after these special variables. Positioning the imports closer to the functional code helps consolidate related elements, improving readability, debugging, and overall comprehension.

.. _dev_testing_module_documentation:

Testing module documentation
============================

> * Before committing your module documentation, please test it at the command line and as HTML as described on the :ref:`testing_module_documentation` page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before committing your module documentation, please test it on the command line and as HTML as described on the :ref:`testing_module_documentation` page.
```
